well that was quite the decade we have
breaking news tonight
[Applause]
[Music]
in the span of all of human history a
decade is just the blink of an eye but
as you know for us living in that time
it sure does feel a lot longer at the
start of the 2010s the smartphone was
only three years old memes looked like
this in the Internet while existing in
the 2000s was now accessible to such a
large portion of the global population
things were about to get weird now
looking back on certain decades with
context we always like to put our own
themes on what those decades meant for
America World War two civil rights in
Vietnam on the stake a mistake bowl of
terrorists that why subscribe can we
really put the 2010s into such a summary
after such a short amount of time being
away from it now with the full knowledge
of hindsight from decades in the future
but I'm going to damn well try if you're
from the future and say at the end of
this video
well that wasn't accurate at all well
sorry I don't live in 2031
go back to your crippling VR addiction
as a society our view of certain time
periods transforms over time with
hindsight past events that might seem
good at the time can eventually bite us
in the ass
or those we think are horrendous now
might not be the worst thing ever in the
future that said who cares I'm going to
do it anyway so sit down grab some
popcorn for your liquor of choice as we
try to break down what the hell this
last decade was about
[Music]
in 1989 the Berlin Wall fell as a 90s
rolled in the Soviet Union no longer
existed NATO and more specifically the
United States found themselves as the
sole power on earth a new world order as
the first president Bush called it
conflicts became smaller individual
dictators became targets and even though
the u.s. went headfirst into the war on
terror invaded two countries and needed
to rebuild them who killed Hannibal for
those two decades America was still the
sole power to do whatever it wanted its
enemies were rogue dictators were
faceless terrorist threats so why do I
bring this up for 20 years
the United States was unrivaled Russia
was rebuilding after the collapse of
communism and China was rebranding
itself yet by the 20 tons that new world
order post Cold War type of dynamic had
came to an end Russia was now an
oligarchy led by a strongman flexing his
muscles in Eastern Europe and Syria
China had shifted into authoritarian
capitalism and modernized since the 90s
the US in a way squandered a brief
period of time where it was unrivaled
and by the last decade it's dumb actions
could be exploited by other new major
powers the lesson we can all take away
from the 20 tons is that the further the
decade progressed the less influential
the United States became globally while
trumped by 2016 certainly didn't help
this regression of American influence he
wasn't the cause of it nobody could have
prevented America's decline
internationally the only reason America
was at the top in the first place was
because her only rivals just like in
World War two were rebuilding themselves
and the 2010s is when we go back to the
same normal script influence needs to be
spread in proxies compete with one
another and there's been no better time
to start a new rivalry than when the
world itself starts off the decade in
turmoil
Oh golly gee I sure am glad to have
survived that last decade now I can just
sit down and browse the Internet in the
comfort of my own home it is I the
identity bandit I'm here to steal your
face and wreck up the place oh no how
could I have been so careless to let my
guard down and not lock my door
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha as a situation ever
happened to you hi I'm sponsorship Cody
when going online it's always a
possibility to be subject to the fiends
and ghouls of the Internet this video
was sponsored by noir VPN if you click
the link in the description or use the
code autist you can get noir VPN now for
70% off a three year plan plus one
additional month free but Cody what even
is it
I'm glad you asked you faceless husk
Nord VPN is a virtual private network
that allows you to protect your identity
online just pick one of the thousands of
servers they have in over 60 countries
and you can use the internet in peace
keeping your IP address absolutely safe
but I'm from a repressive regime you say
no worries Nord VPN can bypass those
pesky firewalls and censorship friendly
countries go to Nord VPN comm slash all
hissed and use the code alt each is T
and you can get nor VPN now for 70% off
the three year plan plus one additional
month free well no face Jimmy my time on
this earth is very short and the video
is about to continue best of luck in
your troubles thanks Cody I'll have to
figure out how to birth
[Music]
when the decade began the Great
Recession was still in full swing
unemployment had rose the housing market
in the u.s. I'd crest and governments
across Europe were becoming bankrupt
this was the first instance we see in
the 2010s of major protests and riots
becoming the mainstream Tea Party
protests Occupy Wall Street but what are
they protesting nobody seems to know
they were happy to take some time from
their books banjos bongos sports drinks
so do you know that taxpayers actually
made money on the Wall Street bailout
[Music]
seriously but those protests were
nothing compared to what was to come
[Music]
while the revolutions themselves only
lasted for about a year or so the
ramifications dominated the decade the
Arab Spring was the most influential
event of the 2010s
it all began in 2011 Tunisia
successfully had their own revolution
that ended in a better government
compared to the last regime and just
like every wave of rebellion everyone
else wanted to try the same thing
against their own corrupt leaders at the
time it was seen as this Great Awakening
where the Middle East might form
democracies on their own we're going to
fix all those things in Egypt by turning
down forces number one we need you to
step aside now because we the people
should rule Egypt not the military
okay well dictators aren't prone to
change who knew militaries fired on
protesters protesters fired back won't
you know it we have civil wars whoopee
ax is nothing more than the world's
biggest battle royale today where it
tribes militias and out turkey fight
over the coastline slavery is now one of
its biggest industries now I have the
opportunity to determine their own
destiny in a new and democratic Libya
Egypt has gone through various regimes
before settling on a military
dictatorship the Gulf states shut down
their protests pretty quick but Syria
Syria was different Syria was in such a
unique as in terrible position compared
to the other Arab states it was deeply
tied to Russia and Iran a bordered Iraq
which the US had just got a majority of
its troops out of and so every major
Power had a vested interest in how this
particular war turned out this wasn't
just a civil war anymore it was a good
old-fashioned proxy war one that
exploded into a war against Isis for
Pecha waiting the conflict even longer
and in the end Assad will still probably
win even though I'm going to talk about
the ramifications that occur mostly for
the West I cannot stress enough how much
this has altered the fate for millions
of people across the Middle East all due
to pretty short revolutions that
occurred a decade ago the effects of
Syria spread out like an
cloud there were a lot of them but I
think these are the most important ones
one the refugee crisis that immediately
came from the fighting spread into
Europe sparking a debate on immigration
border security and new right-wing
movements across the continent
this wasn't just from Syria but also
from the collapse of Libya where
smugglers can now operate freely
ferrying migrants across the
Mediterranean into Italy causing an
entirely separate crisis which was also
combined with the rise of Isis Isis was
not al Qaeda they were able to grow from
both Iraq and Syria's collapse into an
actual territory with enforced borders
granted most of this land was just
desert connected by small towns but it
was still enough to inspire Muslims from
most importantly Western countries to
either join the group or commit
terrorist acts on behalf of the group
attacked only created more fuel to the
fire in deepened resentment
luckily it seems like with the defeat of
Isis as a military force the attacks
have stopped or at least Europe is doing
a better job at counterterrorism that
doesn't matter though because now we
have with the EU perceived failure to at
least regulate the refugee crisis from
the 20 tonnes and fears from the
previous terrorist attacks this caused a
new influx of people wishing to leave
the EU entirely because of this that
future is only open to us with
independence unintended result of the
Arab Spring was Scottish independence
Scheib and Scottish with each of these
situations they were all influenced by
that one of origin point and it's a good
summer a ssin of what internationally
the decade really was one of unrest
protests and political upheaval in many
ways like the 1970s speaking of the 70s
oh boy America and the 2010s what a ride
it has been I would Americans in the
future view at the 20 tons this is going
to be quite the hot egg but for the
United States as a whole I think the
2010s was actually a drastic improvement
compared to the 2000s hey Josh a yes yes
I know this is heresy how could you say
that I think the common mentality
surrounding the 2010s being [__] is
mostly because the main demographic of
the internet is younger people people
who would have been very young or kids
during the 2000s and as with anybody
looking back on their childhood they see
those simpler better times but these
were not simpler times even as a kid I
remember playing stuff like mario
sunshine while the news in the
background talked about the latest
casualties in Iraq
[Music]
despite the technological advancements
mm for the country kind of sucked 911
literally can hold the nation in a two
different Wars Katrina destroyed New
Orleans the stock market collapsed in
2008 the entire country felt like it was
just in a state of depression and maybe
that's reflective in the media of the
time if any one of those events happened
during the age of social media you would
think that the world is ending
while the 2010s we are more politically
divided there is more extremism I think
there's actually a far better decade
overall for the United States
domestically compared to the 2000s the
recession came in once and Laden was
killed we at least got most of the
troops out of Iraq and Afghanistan a lot
of the negative events that occurred to
the United States in the 2010s were
simply aftershocks from the cluster that
was the 2000s I think that the 2010s
will be seen as a transition period a
shift from the war on terror 2000s to
whatever the 2020s will bring the focus
of the country is moving on to other
spaces competition with Russia and China
as those powers grow with the United
States no longer the sole dominant power
situations like Iraq are hopefully a
thing of the past I said hopefully I
said got
[Music]
when I ask people what they think that
20 tens will be remembered for a lot of
the responses I got boiled down to memes
or social media and I think these
answers aren't actually that far off the
memes themselves won't be remembered but
we look back on with the same fondness
we have for rage comics also hang myself
and social media is here to stay it
won't be unique to just the 2010s but
the 20 tons will be remembered for being
the first decade of where the masses
themselves could interact easily with
one another on a global scale and the
reasons for that are simple technology
that was expensive in the 2000s became
cheaper the internet gained better
infrastructure it's almost weird to
think about today but the last decade
saw a revolution in how people interact
with one another before the 2010s the
internet was prominent sites like
Twitter and Facebook existed but their
populations were small by the start of
2010 Facebook had just reached 500
million viewers only 3 years earlier it
didn't even have a tenth of that while
500 million is a lot it's nothing
compared to the 2 billion it is today
Twitter was even smaller having only 50
million users in 2010 and while it
exploded over the decade as well it kind
of plateaued out with 350 million oof
Twitter you're in trouble buddy
why aren't you showing your viewer
growth anymore what was once an
interesting way of communicating soon
grew into a major influence in every
person's life even if you've never
logged on to a social media site in your
life social media is a tool that's most
basic it's just an easy way to say
something for anybody to see but when
anybody can say anything
things get wacky not only were these
sites a simple way to talk to others but
to share articles information perceive
news as soon as it happens
hey this thing is great hey this thing
isn't
that cycle of information and well
traditional journalism collapsed the
Fourth Estate is a term to describe the
power that journalists and news media
have to keep the powers of government in
check by informing the citizens the way
citizens have received news and
information has always evolved but
throughout that whole time having an
informed audience was seen as a
necessity to a functioning democracy the
newspaper itself has been dying for a
while even before social media all
thanks to 24-hour news and ever since
the 80s anything the newspaper prints
the next day would already have been
milked to death by the previous day's
rounds of CNN in Fox News and this was
already a pretty big problem because
while cable news was a faster way of
knowing the news it's not ethical at all
because actual news doesn't happen that
much and you can't simply talk about
nothing because you have to keep you
errs watching until the commercials a
fundamental part of an informed
democracy the Fourth Estate for decades
has become corrupted by ratings and
keeping viewers watching for those dumb
ads by 2010 social media blew up the
internet became the final nail in the
coffin to newspapers cable news and
internet sites both operate under the
same mentality clicks and views before
the state died in the 2010s it will not
be replaced by anything except a
free-for-all of misinformation and
personal bias driven by conversations of
people themselves as people will just
read a headline on a feed get the
general idea and scroll down leading to
a future where there is no institution
with an ethical code but instead the
people are informed from small bits of
information on a feed and now is an era
of mob rule by social opinion this is
why at least online using politics as an
example it seems like the political
divide has gotten so much worse for the
2010s we saw the general public
begin to be more easily misinformed and
the most extreme information is the one
that's the most shared protests riots
fights in the streets social media is a
tool and have used irresponsibly this
last decade has taught us if nothing
else it can cause chaos
just a couple private citizens hold so
much sway over the information that
influences real-world events in fact a
few companies controlling so much of
what we see in here really does seem to
be an increasing theme reminds me of oh
oh no but that's a story for another
time the way we view the past is
determined on the values that we hold in
the present for the 20 tons of
revolution and technology where people
can now communicate with others from
around the globe or was it a time of
divide where the people began to
politically fracture only spurred on
more by false information led by
unethical companies
was it the rise of a new type of
extremism caused by online bubbles and
disillusioned new generations coming
into a job market where wages have
stagnated or was it simply an aftershock
following the earthquake that was the
2000s a rough transition to a better
time all of these views are valid
because right now we don't know what the
events that occurred in the 2010s will
evolve into for me I believe these main
themes internationally the world saw a
new awakening of former global powers
the 20-year period of American dominance
following the end of the Cold War has
concluded for the West the refugee
crisis and economic fallout from the
Great Recession create an era of protest
and extremism
all this was fueled by a technological
revolution in communication social media
and the maturing of the internet
allowing for protest and the inevitable
fallout of such a thing in some areas of
the world leading to much greater
disasters than anyone at this time
can imagine keep in mind if this view is
from a recent mindset who knows how this
will change and it will change history
is always on a branching Road it all
depends on which path we go down to
determine the perspective will view what
we left behind so how will we view the
2010s in the future let's see how the
future goes
[Music]